# AzDevops =;

# DEVOPS ECOSYSTEM =;
PLAN = JIRA, Confluence;
CODE = Git;
BUILD  = SBT, Maven;
TEST Types = (Unit, e2e, compliance, security) ;
TEST Frameworks =  JUnit, Se, NUnit,  .net.test.sdk;
RELEASE = CD, Jenkins, Codeship, CircleCI, TeamCity, Bamboo, GitLab;
DEPLOY = DC/OS, Docker, AWS;
OPERATE = Chef, Ansible, k8s;
Documentation = Wiki, Boards ;
Release notes = az devops release notes generator;
MONITOR = Nagios, Splunk, Datadog;
COLABORATE = Slack;

# testing =;

## Testing in Phase (JIT) =;
`Code Commits/pull request/CI` = Static Code Analysis
`CI` = VSC Analysis, Rosyn, Checkmarx, BinSkin
`Nightly tests`= OWASP Zap
`CD` = Penetration Testing, Treat Modeing, Load Testing

## testing =;
unit testing = ;
Integration test =; 
Smoke test ( main features) =  ;
Regression test =;
Acceptance testing ( user story) =;
System test = test it all as a black box;

# lang =;

## javascript =
Gulp, Grunt, npm, JSLint, JSHint,
PMD, mocha, cypress, jasmine, jest, karma, ava
mocha =mocha-junit-reporter
cypress-multi-reporters
jasmine =jasmine-reporters
jest  =jest-junit, junit-reporter
karma = karma-junit-reporter
Ava = tap-xunit;

## Java =
 Ant, Maven, Gradle (build), Jenkins,JMeter, Istanbul
Maven, PMD (code quality) ,FindBugs, Cobertuna (code coverage);

## C# =
NDepend, FxCop, SonarSource, SonarC#, Reshaper,
msbuild, vs, vstest, nuget;

## python =
TBD;

# notes =;
basic states = todo, doing, done;
agile  states = new, active, resolved, closed, removed;
scrum  states = new, approved, commited, done, removed;
cmmi  states = proposed, active, resolved, closed;
git vs TFVC = TFVC has better integration into Azure Boards and Security like access control and poliecies of updating;
.npmrc credentials for npm = users local dir;
secrets for pipline =  in pipline editor;
Visual Studios app center = distribution groups;
Github App = which has support for the Github checks API.;
helm = packagemanager for k8s;
deployment vs releases = ci vs cd;
CD = Build, test, config, deploy to prod.;
YAML = Ci/CD language;
Microsoft.Resource/Deployments = resource type for azure devops pipelines;
formerly =Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS), Team Foundation Server (TFS).; 
apps =  Azure devops, Azure pipelines,  Azure portal, visual studios App Center;
project type = Basic, Agile, capability maturity model integation(CMMI), Scum;
trunck branch = master, feature, release, bug ;
package managers = nuget, maven npm;
DevOps = Code, Build, Test, Release, Deply, Operate, Monitor, Plan;
Azure Devops = Azure Boards, Azure Repos, Azure Piplines, Azure Test Plans, Azure Artifacts;
package managers = nuget, npm, maven, homebrew, ,Chocolatey  ,Rpm;
Build  = Apache ant, NAnt, Gradle;
Deployment patterns = A/b testing , Dev, QA, prod, uat, staging,/ Blue-green/ Canary; release~early-adopters/ Dark launching/ Progressive exposure;
Rings=Internal,Early adopters, Pilots, Foa , Broad deployment; 
Deploy to  = Web app service, K8s cluster ,Service fabric;
Testing Framworks = Android, Appium, Calabash, Espresso, Xamarin.uitest;
CI tools = Travis, Vsts, Appveyor, jenkins;
Code checks = Bugs, Code quality/smells, Library vuln, Security hotspots, Coverage, Duplication, refactoring ;
Build  = Apache ant , NAnt, Gradle;
Triggers = Post/Pre Task for CI/CD;
build Agents= build Agents port 443 (also McOS);
Deployment group = Windows, Linux;
Env vs Deployment group =;
agent pool vs enn = ;
WI 2 Commit = fix AB#ID of WI;
azure devops filesystem = ;
http://cwe.mitre.org/ =;
http://cve.mitre.org/cve/ = ;
cvss = ;

# metrics = ;
LeadTime = “Ability to provide the elapsed time from the creation of work items to their completion”;
CycleTime = “Ability to provide the elapsed time to complete work items once they are marked as active”;
Burndown = “Ability to provide the view on the work remaining”;

# variables =; 
$()=;
$(Build.SourcesDirectory)=;
$(BuildConfiguration)=;
System.AccessToken = is a special variable that carries the security token used by the running build.;
macro = $(var) = runtime;
emplate expression= ${{ variables.var }} = compile time
runtime expression = $[variables.var]
Batch script var = %VARIABLE_NAME% | $VARIABLE_NAME ;
PowerShell script var = $env:VARIABLE_NAME;

# Cli =
Az devops
Az extension add ;

# package managers = 
Npm install
Dot net restore
Nuget .. push
homebrew
Chocolatey 
Rpm;

# Extensions =;
Arm outputs =;
Branch viz =;
Dependency tracker =;
ReplaceTokens =;
Planer =;

# 3pp apps (service connections) 
Azure analysis service = Data Semantic Modeling;
Binskim = A binary static analysis tool that provides security and correctness results for Windows portable executables,  https://github.com/Microsoft/binskim;
Checkmarx = A Static Application Security Testing (SAST) tool. https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=checkmarx.cxsast;
Cobertuna/jcoverage = A code coverage utility for Java;
NDepend = is the premier static code analysis tool that empowers .NET ;
FindBugs = static analysis to look for bugs in Java code;
FxCop = is a free static code analysis tool from Microsoft that checks . NET managed code assemblies for conformance to Microsoft's;
LaunchDarkly = Fast and reliable feature management for the modern enterprise.;
Micro Focus Fortify On Demand = https://microfocus.com/en-us/products/application-security-testing/overview;
Micro Focus Forty (codes sec)= https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=fortifyvsts.hpe-security-fortify-vsts;
Micro Focus Forty Extension= https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=fortifyvsts.hpe-security-fortify-vsts;
OWASP (codes sec)= https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Main_Page;
Owasp =dependency checking;
Owasp top ten =;
Owasp zap. (Zeds attack proxy) =;
PMD =(Programming Mistake Detector) is an open source static source code analyzer that reports on issues found within application code;
Reshaper= testing tool for .net;
Roslyn security = ~Visual Studio Code Analysis;
Secure devops kit=;
Selenium (Se)=;
SonarAnslyzer=;
SonarCloud=;
SpecFlow=;
Synopsis black duck (sbt)= ;
WhiteSource = Open Source licensing;
Whitesource bolt=;
chef inspec=;
slack = team messaging;
sonarqube = code testing;
Coded ui =vs selenium tests;
Jekyll site = ;
Azure Test Plans = are used to track manual testing for sprints and milestones. This allows you to track when that testing is complete.;
Apache JMeter = is open source software written in Java and designed to load test functional behavior and measure performance.;
Pester = is a tool that can be used to automate the testing of PowerShell code.;
SoapUI = is another testing framework for SOAP and REST testing.;
Solidify = offers a tool for Jira to Azure DevOps migration.;


# system variables 
Variables = Agent, Build, Enviornment, System;
Agent.BuildDirectory = The local path on the agent where all folders for a given build pipeline are created.;
Agent.HomeDirectory	= The directory the agent is installed into. This contains the agent software. Agent.Id	= The ID of the agent.;
Agent.JobName = The name of the running job. This will usually be "Job" or "__default", but in multi-config scenarios, will be the configuration.;
Agent.JobStatus	The status of the build. Canceled,Failed,Succeeded, SucceededWithIssues (partially successful);
AGENT_JOBSTATUS =  The older agent.jobstatus is available for backwards compatibility.;
Agent.MachineName =	The name of the machine on which the agent is installed.;
Agent.Name	= The name of the agent that is registered with the pool.;
Agent.OS =	The operating system of the agent host. Valid values are:
Windows_NT, Darwin, Linux  ;
Agent.OSArchitecture =	The operating system processor architecture of the agent host. Valid values are: X86, X64 ARM;
Agent.TempDirectory	= A temporary folder that is cleaned after each pipeline run. ;
Agent.ToolsDirectory =	The directory used by tasks such as Node Tool Installer and;
Agent.WorkFolder =	The working directory for this agent. For example: c:\agent_work. ;
Build.ArtifactStagingDirectory	=  The local path on the agent where any artifacts are copied to before being pushed to their destination. For example: c:\agent_work\1\a ;
Build.BuildId =	The ID of the record for the completed build.;
Build.BuildNumber =	The name of the completed build, also known as the run number. You can specify what is included in this value.;
Build.BuildUri	= The URI for the build. For example: vstfs:///Build/Build/1430. ;
Build.DefinitionVersion	= The version of the build pipeline.;
Build.QueuedBy	= See "How are the identity variables set?". ;
Build.QueuedById =	See "How are the identity variables set?".;
Build.Reason =	The event that caused the build to run.;
ValidateShelveset = A user manually queued the build of a specific TFVC shelveset.;
CheckInShelveset=  Gated check-in trigger.;
PullRequest = The build was triggered by a Git branch policy that requires a build.;
BuildCompletion = The build was triggered by another build;
Build.Repository.Clean	= The value you've selected for Clean in the source repository settings. ;
Build.Repository.ID	= The unique identifier of the repository. ;
Build.Repository.Name	= The name of the repository. ;
Build.Repository.Provider =	The type of repository you selected.;
Build.Repository.Uri =	The URL for the repository. For example:;
Build.RequestedFor	= See "How are the identity variables set?". ;
Build.RequestedForEmail	= See "How are the identity variables set?".;
Build.RequestedForId =	See "How are the identity variables set?".;
Build.SourceBranch	= The branch the build was queued for. Some examples:;
Build.SourcesDirectory =	;
Build.SourceVersion	= The latest version control change that is included in this build.;
Build.StagingDirectory =	;
Build.Repository.Git.SubmoduleCheckout	= The value you've selected for Checkout submodules on the repository tab. ;
Build.TriggeredBy.DefinitionId	= If the build was triggered by another build, then this variable is set to the DefinitionID of the triggering build. ;
Build.TriggeredBy.DefinitionName =	If the build was triggered by another build, then this variable is set to the name of the triggering build pipeline. ;
Build.TriggeredBy.BuildNumber	= If the build was triggered by another build, then this variable is set to the number of the triggering build. ;
Build.TriggeredBy.ProjectID	= If the build was triggered by another build, then this variable is set to ID of the project that contains the triggering build. ;
Common.TestResultsDirectory	 = The local path on the agent where the test results are created. For example: c:\agent_work\1\TestResults ;
Pipeline.Workspace	= Workspace directory for a particular pipeline.;
Environment.Name =	Name of the environment targeted in the deployment job to run the deployment steps and record the deployment history. For example, smarthotel-dev.;
Environment.Id	= ID of the environment targeted in the deployment job. For example, 10.;
Environment.ResourceName	= Name of the specific resource within the environment targeted in the deployment job to run the deployment steps and record the deployment history. = For example, bookings which is a Kubernetes namespace that has been added as a resource to the environment smarthotel-dev.;
Environment.ResourceId	= ID of the specific resource within the environment targeted in the deployment job to run the deployment steps. For example, 4.;
System.AccessToken	= Use the OAuth token to access the REST API. ;
System.DefinitionId	= The ID of the build pipeline.;
System.HostType	= Set to build if the pipeline is a build. For a release, the values are deployment for a Deployment group job, gates during evaluation of gates, and release for other (Agent and Agentless) jobs.;
System.JobAttempt =	Set to 1 the first time this job is attempted, and increments every time the job is retried.;
System.JobDisplayName	= The human-readable name given to a job.;
System.JobId	= A unique identifier for a single attempt of a single job.;
System.JobName	= The name of the job, typically used for expressing dependencies and accessing output variables.;
System.PhaseAttempt	 = Set to 1 the first time this phase is attempted, and increments every time the job is retried.;
System.PhaseDisplayName =	The human-readable name given to a phase.;
System.PhaseName =	A string-based identifier for a job, typically used for expressing dependencies and accessing output variables.;
System.StageAttempt =	Set to 1 the first time this stage is attempted, and increments every time the job is retried.;
System.StageDisplayName =	The human-readable name given to a stage.;
System.StageName =	A string-based identifier for a stage, typically used for expressing dependencies and accessing output variables.;
System.PullRequest.IsFork	= If the pull request is from a fork of the repository, this variable is set to True. Otherwise, it is set to False.;
System.PullRequest.PullRequestId =	 The ID of the pull request that caused this build. For example: 17. (This variable is initialized only if the build ran because of a Git PR affected by a branch policy.);
System.PullRequest.PullRequestNumber =	The number of the pull request that caused this build. This variable is populated for pull requests from GitHub which have a different pull request ID and pull request number.;
System.PullRequest.SourceBranch	The branch that is being reviewed in a pull request. For example: refs/heads/users/raisa/new-feature. (This variable is initialized only if the build ran because of a Git PR affected by a branch policy.);
System.PullRequest.SourceRepositoryURI	=The URL to the repo that contains the pull request. For example: https://dev.azure.com/ouraccount/_git/OurProject. (This variable is initialized only if the build ran because of a Azure Repos Git PR affected by a branch policy. It is not initialized for GitHub PRs.);
System.PullRequest.TargetBranch	=The branch that is the target of a pull request. For example: refs/heads/master. This variable is initialized only if the build ran because of a Git PR affected by a branch policy.;
System.TeamFoundationCollectionUri	=The URI of the team foundation collection. For example: https://dev.azure.com/fabrikamfiber/ ;
System.TeamProject	=The name of the project that contains this build.;
System.TeamProjectId	=The ID of the project that this build belongs to.;
TF_BUILD =	Set to True if the script is being run by a build task. ;
